updating troubleshooting in ci init, correcting log instructions (#1261)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/troubleshooting/semgrep-ci.md

}
</ul>

# Troubleshooting Semgrep issues in CI

> This document outlines troubleshooting steps for issues related to **Semgrep scans** in a CI environment. Refer to the following sections you're seeing results reported on files that have not changed since the last scan, frequent time outs, or other issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document outlines troubleshooting steps for issues related to **Semgrep scans** in a CI environment. Refer to the following sections if you're seeing results reported on files that have not changed since the last scan, frequent timeouts, or other issues.
```

For issues on **deployment or CI configuration**, such as adding repositories, see the knowledge base articles in [<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> Semgrep in CI](/kb/semgrep-ci/).

## Reproducing the issue locally

To aid in debugging, you can reproduce some aspects of your Semgrep CI job locally. This enables you to inspect the logs and behavior through your terminal rather than in your CI provider's interface. Perform the following steps:

1. Run the following command in your terminal:
    ```
    semgrep login
    ```
1. After logging in, return to the CLI and run the following code: <pre class="language-bash"><code>SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=<span className="placeholder">your-organization</span>/<span className="placeholder">repository-name</span> semgrep ci</code></pre>
    For example, given a GitHub repository is `vulncorp/juice-shop`, the full command would be:
    ```
    SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=vulncorp/juice-shop semgrep ci
    ```

>     By setting `SEMGREP_REPO_NAME`, Semgrep fetches rules and any other configurations specific to your CI environment, enabling you to reproduce your environment locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When running `semgrep ci`, Semgrep fetches rules and any other configurations specific to your CI environment. Setting `SEMGREP_REPO_NAME` is optional, but ensures that:
    
     * Results will be sent to the same project in Semgrep Cloud Platform 
     * Any project-specific configurations, such as file ignores, are also respected.
```
or something like that :)

If you're not getting results where you should, or you get too many results, the problem might be with the patterns Semgrep scans for. Semgrep search patterns look just like the source code they're meant to find, so they are easy to learn and update.

You can review the search patterns in the [rules directory of the `semgrep-sast` analyzer](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/security-products/analyzers/semgrep/-/tree/main/rules) and report issues to the GitLab team. Refer to the [Semgrep rule writing tutorial](https://semgrep.dev/learn) to help better understand these rule files. You can also refer to the [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore) which is a collection of 2,000+ Semgrep rules curated by Semgrep, Inc.

### `semgrep-sast` crashes, fails, or is otherwise broken

> Semgrep prinst an error message to explain what went wrong upon crashes, and often also what to do to fix it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semgrep prints an error message to explain what went wrong upon crashes, and often also what to do to fix it.
```
Sometimes is probably more accurate than often, but it sounds weird, so :shrug:
